Název testu: Test historie České republiky
Předmět: Anglický jazyk
Témata: History of the Czech Republic
Obtížnost: Těžká
Časový limit: 12 minut

1. When did Czechoslovakia gain independence from the Austro-Hungarian Empire?
Body: 1
a) 1918
b) 1923
c) 1935

2. Who was the first president of Czechoslovakia?
Body: 1
a) Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk
b) Václav Havel
c) Edvard Beneš

3. Which event led to the Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia in 1989?
Body: 1
a) Prague Spring
b) Munich Agreement
c) Fall of the Berlin Wall

4. In which year did the Czech Republic and Slovakia peacefully split into two separate countries?
Body: 1
a) 1992
b) 1993
c) 1994

5. Which political party was founded by Václav Klaus in the Czech Republic?
Body: 1
a) Czech Social Democratic Party
b) Civic Democratic Party
c) Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia

6. Who was the first prime minister of the Czech Republic after the split from Slovakia?
Body: 1
a) Miloš Zeman
b) Václav Klaus
c) Petr Pithart

7. What is the currency of the Czech Republic?
Body: 1
a) Euro
b) Czech koruna
c) Hungarian forint

8. Which Czech city is famous for its historic castle and bridge over the Vltava River?
Body: 1
a) Brno
b) Ostrava
c) Prague

9. What is the traditional Czech dish consisting of dumplings and roast pork called?
Body: 1
a) Goulash
b) Svičková
c) Vepřo-knedlo-zelo

10. Who composed the famous Czech opera "The Bartered Bride"?
Body: 1
a) Antonín Dvořák
b) Bedřich Smetana
c) Leoš Janáček

11. Which Czech tennis player has won multiple Grand Slam singles titles?
Body: 1
a) Tomáš Berdych
b) Petra Kvitová
c) Radek Štěpánek

12. Which Czech director won an Academy Award for Best Director for the film "Closely Watched Trains"?
Body: 1
a) Miloš Forman
b) Jiří Menzel
c) Jan Svěrák

Správné odpovědi:
1. a) 1918
Vysvětlení: Czechoslovakia gained independence from the Austro-Hungarian Empire in 1918 after World War I.
2. a) Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk
Vysvětlení: Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk was the first president of Czechoslovakia and a key figure in the country's history.
3. c) Fall of the Berlin Wall
Vysvětlení: The Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia in 1989 was sparked by the fall of the Berlin Wall and the wave of democratic changes in Eastern Europe.
4. b) 1993
Vysvětlení: The Czech Republic and Slovakia peacefully split into two separate countries on January 1, 1993.
5. b) Civic Democratic Party
Vysvětlení: Václav Klaus founded the Civic Democratic Party (ODS) in the Czech Republic in 1991.
6. a) Miloš Zeman
Vysvětlení: Miloš Zeman was the first prime minister of the Czech Republic after the split from Slovakia in 1993.
7. b) Czech koruna
Vysvětlení: The currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech koruna (CZK).
8. c) Prague
Vysvětlení: Prague is famous for its historic castle (Prague Castle) and bridge (Charles Bridge) over the Vltava River.
9. c) Vepřo-knedlo-zelo
Vysvětlení: Vepřo-knedlo-zelo is a traditional Czech dish consisting of roast pork, dumplings, and sauerkraut.
10. b) Bedřich Smetana
Vysvětlení: Bedřich Smetana composed the famous Czech opera "The Bartered Bride" (Prodaná nevěsta).
11. b) Petra Kvitová
Vysvětlení: Petra Kvitová is a Czech tennis player who has won multiple Grand Slam singles titles, including Wimbledon.
12. b) Jiří Menzel
Vysvětlení: Jiří Menzel won an Academy Award for Best Director for the Czech film "Closely Watched Trains" (Ostře sledované vlaky).

Maximální počet bodů: 12